developer-library/microservices-serverless-workshop/import-devcs-project/import-devcs-project.md, before:

# Importing a Developer Cloud Service Project


Once that we have a Kubernetes Cluster, let’s move on to next step which is importing a DevCS that contains all the microservices that we will have to deploy in this Kubernetes Cluster.

## **Step 1**: Import a Developer Cloud Service Project

1. Go to your DevCS instance and in Organization Menu option, under Projects tab, click **Create**:

  ![](./images/image101.png " ")

2. Enter a Name for your Project, for Security select Private and your Preferred Language. Then Click **Next**:

  ![](./images/image102.png " ")

3. In Template Section, select Import Project Option:

  ![](./images/image103.png " ")

4. For Properties section, we will provide you with details to connect to a preconfigured DevCS instance from which you an import the project in this url:

https://github.com/oraclespainpresales/GigisPizzaHOL/tree/master/microservices/Credentials

5. Click on Next:

  ![](./images/image104.png " ")

6. In next section, select the Container named: “DevCS\_Clone\_Wedodevops” and the zip File available with the Project export to be imported. Then Click **Finish**:

  ![](./images/image105.png " ")

7. Then project start importing process:

  ![](./images/image106.png " ")

8. Importing project goes on:

  ![](./images/image107.png " ")

9. Finally you will have project imported:

  ![](./images/image108.png " ")

10. Review different projects source code in Git menu:

  Note: We will work in next sections with all git but db\_management.git and PizzaDeliveryMobileApp.git

  ![](./images/image109.png " ")

11. Now go to Builds Menu option and check different Jobs

  ![](./images/image110.png " ")

12. And click **Pipelines** tab to check different Pipelines

  ![](./images/image111.png " ")

You can proceed to the next lab.

## Acknowledgements
* **Authors** -  Iván Postigo, Jesus Guerra, Carlos Olivares - Oracle Spain SE Team
* **Last Updated By/Date** - Tom McGinn, April 2020

See an issue?  Please open up a request [here](https://github.com/oracle/learning-library/issues). Please include the workshop name and lab in your request.

Commit message:

updates to microservices-serverless labs 1-5

developer-library/microservices-serverless-workshop/import-devcs-project/import-devcs-project.md, after:

# Importing a Developer Cloud Service Project

## Overview
Now that we have a Kubernetes Cluster, let’s move on to next step which is importing a DevCS that contains all the microservices that we will have to deploy in this Kubernetes Cluster.

## **Step 1**: Import a Developer Cloud Service Project
1. Go to your DevCS instance and in the organization menu, under the projects tab, click **Create**:

  ![](./images/image101.png " ")

2. Enter a name for your project, for security select private, and select your preferred language. Then click **Next**:

  ![](./images/image102.png " ")

3. In the template section, select **Import Project** Option:

  ![](./images/image103.png " ")

4. For the properties section, we will provide you with the details to connect to a preconfigured DevCS instance from which you can import the project. Most of the information can be copied from [here](https://github.com/oraclespainpresales/GigisPizzaHOL/blob/master/microservices/Credentials/AccessBucket). The private key can be copied from [here](https://github.com/oraclespainpresales/GigisPizzaHOL/blob/master/microservices/Credentials/private.pem).

5. Click on Next:

  ![](./images/image104.png " ")

6. In the next section, select the container named: “DevCS\_Clone\_Wedodevops” and the zip file named "Export-wedodev-wedoinfra\_OOW2019HOL\_2019-09-16T03-44-25.690Z-FINAL RELEASE. HOLzip" available with the project export to be imported. Then Click **Finish**:

  ![](./images/image105.png " ")

7. The project will start importing:

  ![](./images/image106.png " ")

8. The process will continue on a second screen:

  ![](./images/image107.png " ")

9. Finally you will have imported the project:

  ![](./images/image108.png " ")

10. Select the git menu to review the source code:

  Note: In the remaining labs we will work with all git repositories except db\_management.git and PizzaDeliveryMobileApp.git

  ![](./images/image109.png " ")

11. You can check the different jobs by selecting the builds menu option

  ![](./images/image110.png " ")

12. And click the **Pipelines** tab to check different Pipelines

  ![](./images/image111.png " ")

You can proceed to the [next lab](?lab=lab-6-configure-project-match-kubernet).

## Acknowledgements
* **Authors** -  Iván Postigo, Jesus Guerra, Carlos Olivares - Oracle Spain SE Team
* **Contributors** - Jaden McElvey, Technical Lead - Oracle LiveLabs Intern
* **Last Updated By/Date** - Tom McGinn, April 2020

See an issue?  Please open up a request [here](https://github.com/oracle/learning-library/issues). Please include the workshop name and lab in your request.
