data-management-library/nosql/create-tables-nosql-database/run-sample-application/run-sample-application.md, before:

# Run the Sample NoSQL Application
## Before You Begin

This 10-minute lab walks you through the steps to create a sample HelloWorld application to connect to an Oracle NoSQL Database Cloud Service and perform basic table level operations.

### Background
Oracle NoSQL Database Cloud Service is a fully managed database cloud service that handles large amounts of data at high velocity. Developers can start using this service in minutes by following the simple steps outlined in this tutorial.

To get started with the service, you create a table.

### What Do You Need?

* An Oracle Cloud paid account or free trial. To sign up for a trial account with $300 in credits for 30 days, click [here](http://oracle.com/cloud/free).
* [Git Bash Shell](https://gitforwindows.org/) (Windows)
* An API Signing Key
* The fingerprint of the public key
* Your tenancy's Oracle Cloud Identifier (OCID)
* The OCID of your user account

## STEP 1: Download the Oracle NoSQL SDK

1. Open the [Oracle Cloud Download](https://www.oracle.com/downloads/cloud/oracle-cloud-downloads.html) page in a browser and click **Download Oracle NoSQL Java SDK**.

  ![](images/download-sdk.png " ")

2. Select the Zip file, accept the license agreement and click **Download**.

  *Note: the version you download may be different than the image below.*

  ![](images/select-sdk-zip.png " ")

3. Save the zip file to your home (~) folder.

    - On Windows systems, your home folder is under `C:/Users/<your username>`.
    - On a Mac, your home folder is under `/Users/<your username>`. Open Finder and press **Command-Shift-H** to open your home folder.

    If you download the zip file to another folder (like Downloads) move the zip file to your home folder before proceeding.

4. Open a shell (GitBash for Windows), and unzip the SDK:

    ```
    <copy>unzip oracle-nosql-java-sdk-5.2.11.zip</copy>
    ```

    ![](images/unzip-result.png " ")

## STEP 2: Download, build and run the sample application

1. Download the provided [HelloWorld.java](https://objectstorage.us-ashburn-1.oraclecloud.com/p/qCpBRv5juyWwIF4dv9h98YWCDD50574Y6OwsIHhEMgI/n/c4u03/b/data-management-library-files/o/HelloWorld.java) file your home directory.

2. Review the sample application. You can access the [JavaAPI Reference Guide](https://docs.oracle.com/en/cloud/paas/nosql-cloud/csnjv/index.html) to reference Java classes, methods, and interfaces included in this sample application.

3. Use `vi` or `nano` or any text editor to create a file named `config` in the `.oci` directory you created in your home directory with the following information:

    ```
    [DEFAULT]
    user=<user-ocid>
    fingerprint=<fingerprint value>
    tenancy=<tenancy-ocid>
    key_file=~/.oci/oci_api_key_private.pem
    pass_phrase=<key passphrase>
    ```

    ![](images/config-file.png " ")

    When `SignatureProvider` is constructed without any parameters, the default [SDK Configuration File](https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Content/API/Concepts/sdkconfig.htm) is located in the `~/.oci/config` directory.

4. Compile the sample application:

    *Note: Use your SDK driver version if it is different.*

    ```
    <copy>javac -cp "oracle-nosql-java-sdk-5.2.11/lib/*" HelloWorld.java</copy>
    ```

    ![](images/compile.png " ")

5. Run the application (on Windows):

    ```
    <copy>java -cp ".;oracle-nosql-java-sdk-5.2.11/lib/*" HelloWorld</copy>
    ```
    ![](images/run-helloworld.png " ")

6. Run the application (on Mac)

    *On a Mac, replace the semicolon with a colon (:) in the command above.*

    ```
    <copy>java -cp ".:oracle-nosql-java-sdk-5.2.11/lib/*" HelloWorld</copy>
    ```
    ![](images/mac-output.png " ")

    Note: In the main method of `HelloWorld.java`, the `dropTable(handle)` is commented out to allow you to see the result of creating the tables in the Oracle Cloud Console.

## STEP 3: Explore tables using the Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Console

1. On the left hand menu, click **NoSQL Database**.

  ![](images/nosql-cloud.png " ")

2. Click **HelloWorldTable** to open the details page.

  ![](images/open-helloworldtable.png " ")

3. Click **Table Rows** under Resources.

  ![](images/helloworldtable.png " ")

4. Click Run Query to execute the select statement and display the record inserted into the table:

  ![](images/run-query.png " ")

Congratulations! You have completed the workshop.

Oracle NoSQL Database also supports Python, Node.js and Go. This application accesses Oracle NoSQL Cloud over HTTP, but most likely you would want to deploy by running your application inside your own tenancy co-located in the same Oracle Cloud Infrastructure region as your NoSQL table and use the Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Service Gateway to connect to the NoSQL Cloud Service.

## Want to Learn More?

* [About Oracle NoSQL Database Cloud Service](https://docs.oracle.com/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=cloud&id=CSNSD-GUID-88373C12-018E-4628-B241-2DFCB7B16DE8)
* [Oracle NoSQL Database Cloud Service page](https://cloud.oracle.com/en_US/nosql)
* [Java API Reference Guide](https://docs.oracle.com/en/cloud/paas/nosql-cloud/csnjv/index.html)

## Acknowledgements
* **Author** - Dave Rubin, Senior Director, NoSQL and Embedded Database Development and Michael Brey, Director, NoSQL Product Development
* **Adapted for Cloud by** -  Tom McGinn, Database Innovations Architect, Product Management
* **Last Updated By/Date** - Tom McGinn, Robert Ruppel, June 2020

See an issue?  Please open up a request [here](https://github.com/oracle/learning-library/issues).

Commit message:

QA2 complete for NOSQL Cloud Service

data-management-library/nosql/create-tables-nosql-database/run-sample-application/run-sample-application.md, after:

# Run the Sample NoSQL Application
## Before You Begin

This 10-minute lab walks you through the steps to create a sample HelloWorld application to connect to an Oracle NoSQL Database Cloud Service and perform basic table level operations.

### Background
Oracle NoSQL Database Cloud Service is a fully managed database cloud service that handles large amounts of data at high velocity. Developers can start using this service in minutes by following the simple steps outlined in this tutorial.

To get started with the service, you create a table.

### What Do You Need?

* An Oracle Cloud paid account or free trial. To sign up for a trial account with $300 in credits for 30 days, click [here](http://oracle.com/cloud/free).
* [Git Bash Shell](https://gitforwindows.org/) (Windows)
* An API Signing Key
* The fingerprint of the public key
* Your tenancy's Oracle Cloud Identifier (OCID)
* The OCID of your user account
* A recent version of the java jdk installed locally on your computer

## STEP 1: Download the Oracle NoSQL SDK

1. Open the [Oracle Cloud Download](https://www.oracle.com/downloads/cloud/oracle-cloud-downloads.html) page in a browser and click **Download Oracle NoSQL Java SDK**.

  ![](images/download-sdk.png " ")

2. Select the Zip file, accept the license agreement and click **Download**.

  *Note: the version you download may be different than the image below.*

  ![](images/select-sdk-zip.png " ")

3. Save the zip file to your home (~) folder.

    - On Windows systems, your home folder is under `C:/Users/<your username>`.
    - On a Mac, your home folder is under `/Users/<your username>`. Open Finder and press **Command-Shift-H** to open your home folder.

    If you download the zip file to another folder (like Downloads) move the zip file to your home folder before proceeding.

4. Open a shell (GitBash for Windows), and unzip the SDK:

    *Note: If the file name is different than oracle-nosql-java-sdk-5.2.11.zip make sure to alter the command below with your file name.*

    ```
    <copy>unzip oracle-nosql-java-sdk-5.2.11.zip</copy>
    ```

    ![](images/unzip-result.png " ")

## STEP 2: Download, build and run the sample application

1. Download the provided [HelloWorld.java](https://objectstorage.us-ashburn-1.oraclecloud.com/p/qCpBRv5juyWwIF4dv9h98YWCDD50574Y6OwsIHhEMgI/n/c4u03/b/data-management-library-files/o/HelloWorld.java) file and move it to your home directory.

2. Review the sample application. You can access the [JavaAPI Reference Guide](https://docs.oracle.com/en/cloud/paas/nosql-cloud/csnjv/index.html) to reference Java classes, methods, and interfaces included in this sample application.

3. Use `vi` or `nano` or any text editor to create a file named `config` in the `.oci` directory you created in your home directory with the following information:

    ```
    <copy>[DEFAULT]
    user=USER-OCID
    fingerprint=FINGERPRINT-VALUE
    tenancy=TENANCY-OCID
    key_file=~/.oci/oci_api_key_private.pem
    pass_phrase=KEY-PASSPHRASE</copy>
    ```

    Replace USER-OCID with you user OCID, FINGERPRINT-VALUE with your API key fingerprint, TENANCY-OCID with your tenancy OCID, and KEY PASSPHRASE with the passphrase you used to create your keys. You should have noted these values in a text file as you've been working through this workshop.

    ![](images/config-file.png " ")

    When `SignatureProvider` is constructed without any parameters, the default [SDK Configuration File](https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Content/API/Concepts/sdkconfig.htm) is located in the `~/.oci/config` directory.

4. Compile the sample application:

    *Note: Use your SDK driver version if it is different.*

    ```
    <copy>javac -cp "oracle-nosql-java-sdk-5.2.11/lib/*" HelloWorld.java</copy>
    ```

    ![](images/compile.png " ")

5. Run the application (on Windows):

    ```
    <copy>java -cp ".;oracle-nosql-java-sdk-5.2.11/lib/*" HelloWorld</copy>
    ```
    ![](images/run-helloworld.png " ")

6. Run the application (on Mac)

    *On a Mac, replace the semicolon with a colon (:) in the command above.*

    ```
    <copy>java -cp ".:oracle-nosql-java-sdk-5.2.11/lib/*" HelloWorld</copy>
    ```
    ![](images/mac-output.png " ")

    Note: In the main method of `HelloWorld.java`, the `dropTable(handle)` is commented out to allow you to see the result of creating the tables in the Oracle Cloud Console.

## STEP 3: Explore tables using the Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Console

1. On the left hand menu, click **NoSQL Database**.

  ![](images/nosql-cloud.png " ")

2. Click **HelloWorldTable** to open the details page.

  *If you do not see HelloWorldTable select your root compartment on the left dropdown.*

  ![](images/open-helloworldtable.png " ")

3. Click **Table Rows** under Resources.

  ![](images/helloworldtable.png " ")

4. Click Run Query to execute the select statement and display the record inserted into the table.

  ![](images/run-query.png " ")

Congratulations! You have completed the workshop.

Oracle NoSQL Database also supports Python, Node.js and Go. This application accesses Oracle NoSQL Cloud over HTTP, but most likely you would want to deploy by running your application inside your own tenancy co-located in the same Oracle Cloud Infrastructure region as your NoSQL table and use the Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Service Gateway to connect to the NoSQL Cloud Service.

## Want to Learn More?

* [About Oracle NoSQL Database Cloud Service](https://docs.oracle.com/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=cloud&id=CSNSD-GUID-88373C12-018E-4628-B241-2DFCB7B16DE8)
* [Oracle NoSQL Database Cloud Service page](https://cloud.oracle.com/en_US/nosql)
* [Java API Reference Guide](https://docs.oracle.com/en/cloud/paas/nosql-cloud/csnjv/index.html)

## Acknowledgements
* **Author** - Dave Rubin, Senior Director, NoSQL and Embedded Database Development and Michael Brey, Director, NoSQL Product Development
* **Adapted for Cloud by** -  Tom McGinn, Database Innovations Architect, Product Management
* **Contributors** - Jaden McElvey, Technical Lead - Oracle LiveLabs Intern
* **Last Updated By/Date** - Tom McGinn, Robert Ruppel, June 2020

See an issue?  Please open up a request [here](https://github.com/oracle/learning-library/issues).
